---
layout: post
title:  "Fyne v2.5 released with internationalistion and great new widgets"
date:   2024-08-14 13:15:00+1000
categories: blog
---

We are excited to announce the release of Fyne v2.5.0! This version is packed with new features, enhancements, and fixes that will significantly improve your experience in developing cross-platform applications. Whether you're building desktop, mobile or web apps, this release brings powerful new tools and optimizations to help you create better, more polished software.

## What’s New in Fyne v2.5.0?

New Features and Additions

### 1. **Internationalization and Translations**

Fyne v2.5.0 introduces support for internationalization (i18n) and [translations](https://docs.fyne.io/explore/translations),
making it easier to build applications that cater to a global audience. This new feature allows your app to display text in multiple languages, improving user experience worldwide.

### 2. **Advanced Font Handling**

To improve the rendering of text, especially with international characters, Fyne now includes the ability to look up system fonts for glyphs that cannot be found in the embedded fonts. This ensures that your application can display a wider range of characters without any rendering issues.

### 3. **Expanded Platform Support**

Fyne v2.5.0 brings completed support for Wayland on Linux, ensuring smooth and native experiences for Linux users. Additionally, our Web driver support is now almost complete, with full functionality except for file handling. For Linux apps built with Flatpak, we’ve added support for XDG Desktop Portals, enhancing security and integration with the host system.

### 4. **New Widgets and Containers**

This release introduces several new UI elements:

- **Activity Indicator**: A widget that visually shows ongoing processes.
- **InnerWindow and MultipleWindows Containers**: These allow for more complex window management in your applications.
- **ThemeOverride Container**: Group items within a container and apply a different theme, offering greater flexibility in design.

### 5. **Enhanced Functionality and API Additions**

Developers now have access to a range of new APIs and functionalities:

- **NativeWindow.RunNative**: Utilize native window handles for deeper system integration.
- **SetDisableScreenBlanking**: Ensure that the display stays on, useful for applications where screen timeouts are undesirable.
- **Undo/Redo Support for widget.Entry**: Implement undo/redo functionality easily within text entries.
- **New AppendMarkdown Function**: Add markdown content dynamically to RichText.
- **Hide Separators in List Widgets**: Improve UI aesthetics by controlling the display of separators.

### 6. **Development and Testing Tools**

To streamline the development process, we’ve introduced new test functions like **NewTempApp**, **NewTempWindow**, and **TempWidgetRenderer**. These automatically free resources, making your test suite more efficient and reliable.

## Changes and Improvements

### 1. **Minimum Go Version**

Fyne now requires Go 1.19 or later, ensuring compatibility with the latest Go language features and improvements.

### 2. **Improved Visuals and Usability**

We’ve rounded the corners of scroll bars for a more modern look, improved text contrast on highlighted backgrounds, and enhanced the layout responsiveness on iOS and Android, particularly when the keyboard appears.

### 3. **Platform-Specific Enhancements**

- **macOS Improvements**: System tray and tray menu icons now match the theme on macOS, and the "About" menu item can override the default macOS "About" dialog.
- **iOS and Android Adaptations**: Layouts for mobile apps will now adapt when the keyboard appears, providing a better user experience on small screens.

## Getting Started with Fyne v2.5.0

Upgrading to Fyne v2.5.0 is straightforward. Just update your project dependencies to start taking advantage of the new features and improvements. If you’re new to Fyne, this release is the perfect time to explore what it offers for cross-platform application development.

Check out the [detailed release notes](https://github.com/fyne-io/fyne/releases/tag/v2.5.0) for more information on all the changes.

## Looking Forward

We are continually working to improve Fyne, and we’re already planning future updates with even more exciting features and enhancements. Your feedback and contributions are invaluable as we strive to make Fyne the best toolkit for cross-platform development.

Thank you for being part of the Fyne community, and we can’t wait to see what you build with Fyne v2.5.0! 
And why not consider showing something at [Fyne Conf](https://conf.fyne.io)?

**Happy Coding!**
